After pissing around with crashes for a while I found there was a single nan value slipping into asset universe observation space, so I ran a no_to_nan operation on it and its golden
Google colab kept just stopping half way through a long cycle for no apparent reason so I had to add a checkpoint callback things that saved the model's progress

I altered the date range so it was smaller and more recent, I managed to get a 30k time step run together and...
it learned nothing new (if anyting it was slightly worse), so that made no difference. We need a more comprehensive set of features but the model is already so incredibly slow
I am definitely going to have to cut down the number of assets severely. 

There is so much info and noise the model cant learn anything after only 30k time steps, and this already took about 18 hours
We need ATLEAST 6-figure time steps I imagine to have any chance of learning anything.

Game plan:

1) Reduce number of assets significantly (about 500-600 range) to see how this effects performance (should be about 8x faster in theory)
2) Systematically add features and see how that effects validation

I think we have just bitten off more than we can chew with regard to computational power required


OK ust writing down thoughts

It's completely fine if we narrow down the asset universe. This is just a proof of concept. If we can make a model that shows positive returns relative to the average of the universe its in
that's a success. 
Average return can be done by doing the ROI on the sum of the value of all assets within the respective universe (the % change of the total value of the universe)
This means it should be easier to leverage good results as we can eliminate high flying stocks like AAPL, NVIDA etc.. that make the NASDAQ average so high
We can then compare the ROI of our algo to that of the selected universe

We can also add a few new features to this universe. 

Dont worry about the fact that this won't be able to operate on a universe as a whole, we just need to make sure there is a diverse range of stocks in the asset universe
In our report if we get progress from a smaller universe we can just say this serves as proof of concept and therefore it can work on a larger universe if we had more puff


UPDATE ON REDUCED ASSET UNIVERSE
There are now 440 assets, I got them by taking every 10 out of the main asset universe, this way I can check for consistency (so the rediced asset universe isn't changing)
I reduced it to 10% of the original size and its so much quicker
On my local machine I ran the reduced universe for 250 time steps in 35 seconds
The full universe did this many steps in 240 seconds. That's 6.8 times quicker

I just set it off on colab for 81920 time steps, it did the first 4096 in 421 seconds. At this rate it'll finish the model in 2.3hrs
... It did 81920 steps in 2h 40m roughly 